we begin with breaking news in the
Middle East Israel and the Hezbollah
militant group based in Lebanon say they
have launched attacks against each other
Israel says its Armed Forces struck
thousands of missile SES to prevent a
large-scale attack on its territory
Hezbollah says it has launched a large
number of drones against Israel in
retaliation for the killing of one of
its commanders in Beirut last month the
Israel Defense Forces say they launched
preemptive strikes against haspa Targets
in
Lebanon a short while ago the IDF
identified kisala terrorist organization
preparing to fire missiles Rockets
towards Israeli territory in a
self-defense act to remove these threats
the IDF is striking Terror Targets in
Lebanon from Rich kisala was planning to
launch their attacks on Israeli
civilians for more let's bring in our
correspondent Tanya Kramer in Jerusalem
Tanya what more can you tell
us well at the moment this is uh you
know what we can tell you is that uh the
Israel military said they had uh struck
with about a 100 uh war planes in the
early hours of the morning around 5 a.m
uh what they call these uh rocket
launching uh sites uh and we are hearing
from Hezbollah they had launched over
300 uh uh uavs drones and uh Rockets uh
towards uh Northern and Central uh
Israel now this is this is where it
stands right now they said this was the
first phase of their attack and
retaliation for the killing of the
hasbalah commander uh last month in
southern uh Beirut and Israel says they
took these preemptive strikes to prevent
such a large attack there were some
reports that those Rockets could have
been directed uh towards uh uh military
uh basis um at the moment there's still
an assessment uh going on not so much
yet what the actual uh targets were
there has also been a security cabinet
uh convened in the early uh morning
hours and uh this is now what prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu had to say
then we are determined to do everything
to protect our country return the
residents of the north to their home
and continue to follow a simple rule
whoever hurts us we hurt
them isra Israel of course that shares a
border with Lebanon to the north what's
the situation like
there early morning hours around that
time you know sirens were being heard
across uh uh the northern uh area the
Army says they're still right now
assessing um the damage and injuries
that happened there what you have to
know we heard it now in this uh what
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu also
uh said that uh over 60,000 Israelis or
people living in the North had been
evacuated so they not have been able uh
to go home we had since October last
year uh crossborder attacks between
Hezbollah and Israel so the situation in
the north has been tense and there has
been some expectation uh after these
targeted killings in Beirut but also in
Teran last month that there will be some
retaliation so this was somehow expected
but right now of course uh it is of
course again a different uh situation
this crossborder fying has now
intensified and of course now everybody
is now waiting uh what will happen next
we're hearing also that hasb LE Hassan
ASA will speak later today that go that
could give us an indication how hisbah
sees that situation Tanya half a minute
but I am curious how prepared is Israel
for a major
escalation well Israel says they are
prepared for anything and this is why
they launched as what they described as
those preemptive strikes they have been
preparing for this now for a long time
also preparing the public here uh that
this is coming and that they have to do
something to to change the equation also
at its northern border but of course
this all comes while a war in Gaza is
continuing and also today there were
scheduled uh some talks again uh in CYO
about a possible ceasefire and hostage
release deal now everybody has been
rather pessimistic about uh that these
would yield uh some uh positive results
but still it was being seen as trying to
calm down the situation at least that is
what the mediators and Qatar Egypt and
the US have been trying to do not to
open another major here um between
Israel and Southern Lebanon or hban
Israel but we have to wait and see now
what the next hours will
bring as always our thanks to DW's Tanya
Kramer in
Jerusalem turning to Tel Aviv now where
we're joined by journalist sladin balik
saladine what's the situation where you
are well um there was no Sirens here in
Tel Aviv or in the the uh uh Center of
Israel in general the only thing that
happened here is the meeting the cabinet
meeting in the kirad the AR headquarters
in the center of Tel Aviv where some
security assessments has taken place but
uh according to the latest reports there
was some intention from hisbah to strike
Targets in the center of Tel Aviv mainly
According to some reports Thea itself as
a symbol of uh um the uh um the the
place that the decision to take down
shukur the top Commander was taken in
but that didn't happen and it's because
of the 100 fighter jets that struck the
south in Lebanon and maybe um did
um just made this whole thing a failure
that's what we are hearing right now
from the uh Israeli uh public from the
Israeli media and also from the Israeli
uh um IDF and the military so uh we're
thinking that currently at least uh
there will be no strikes against Tel
Aviv because that itself might mean that
hisbah uh is opening a new frontier and
a full-blown out War something that
according to the estimation is not what
hisbah is intending for right as you
surely know the is military says this
was a preemptive strike are you hearing
anything else from
them well they are saying that about 100
fighter jets struck Targets in southern
Lebanon in about 40 different locations
40 different launching sites uh um but I
would cast doubt on the analysis of this
that uh Hezbollah wanted to launch 6,000
Rockets according to the New York Times
toward the uh area of central Israel
because that itself would mean actually
opening a full BL War full-blown at war
with Israel something that as I said is
not estimated in Israel uh and also the
other um assessments to this would be or
they are actually that hisbah like
wanted to at some point launch uh or use
these launching sites against Israeli
targets but not um imminently and not um
as a result of the or as a retaliatory
attack to the Sher assassination so um
the preemptive strike came to um try to
uh
um to jeopardize this whole operation
but it's not necessary that they meant
to launch 6,000 Rockets as the reports
saying uh just today against Israeli
targets especially in this of Israel
understood that's journalist sladin
balik in Tel Aviv many
thanks our correspondent Muhammad sha
joins us by phone from Lebanon Muhammad
what can you tell us about this attack
from where you
are well there has been many indications
this week that we were heading towards
this escalation mainly The Stumbling
negotiations about a ceasefire in in
Gaza and the increased number of
military attacks by hasah Israel and in
the the intensified Israeli attacks
Earth strikes on Lebanon over the past
few days uh also which may indicat that
Israel has been detecting hezbollah's
preparation uh for the attack uh this
morning and was was uh striking um uh
preemptive strikes uh towards Southern
Lebanon you know the conflict between
Israel and hisbah has been uh instilled
by a deterrence formula and obviously by
striking the southern suburbs of beut
last month Israel scored a point and by
this retaliation this morning hasah is
aiming to regain the det the deterrence
and safe face after the huge loss it
received by the killing of its senior
Commander for
aruk what's been the reaction in
Beirut well it's early very early in on
a Sunday in Beirut to capture reactions
from the street but it looks like and
despite the big escalation that the
situation is um quite contained and is
gradually backed to the daily routine of
intermittent crossb shelling between
hasah and the Israeli uh Army hasah
issued a a follow-up statement minutes
ago um saying that the operations uh for
today was complete was um uh finished
and more information on this operation
will be released in a speech by its uh
Chief Hassan nah early later uh uh this
day so everyone here in Beirut is um
just anticipating the speech and
watching the developments DW's Muhammad
sha joining us again there by phone in
Lebanon really appreciate
it Hezbollah says it's a aerial attack
on Israel is in response to an Israeli
air strike at the end of last month that
killed its senior Commander fuad Shakur
on the same day Israel is believed to
have assassinated Hamas leader ISM hania
in tyan both Hezbollah and Iran have
vowed to retaliate to guard against such
attacks Israel relies on a multi-layered
air defense
system April
2024 Israel sustains a massive missile
barrage from Iran more than 300 drones
rockets and missiles form a coordinated
attack for Israel's air defense systems
it's the greatest challenge yet Israel
claims it intercepted 99% of those
hostile missiles and drones so how does
it achieve that kind of success it's
down to a multi-layered air defense
approach comprising a number of moving
Parts in some cases quite literally
truck towed missile units form the
innermost layer the Iron Dome it tackles
short-range threats such as rockets and
mortars and was developed with help from
the US it has intercepted thousands of
rockets since it was instituted in 2011
and Israel claims it has a 90% success
rate next comes David's sling for
mid-range threats
that is designed to shoot down ballistic
missiles farred from between 40 km to
300 km away again it was developed in
collaboration with the US and the
outermost layer is the arrow for the
longer range ballistic missiles it
operates outside the Earth's atmosphere
in space which allows for the safe
dispersal of any non-conventional
Warheads regardless of the method
intercepting Rockets is a costly
business the cost of one Arrow intercept
a missile is between 22 and $3.5 million
according to Media reports 110 of them
were used to defend against the Iranian
attack suggesting a cost of $385 million
the mid-range Rockets from the David
sling system are about $1 million each
estimates put the cost at 550 million to
$11 billion just for the April
operation there is another important
layer too Israel's Air Force a key part
of its defense
picture and in addition to all this
there are new tools coming online such
as the laser powered iron beam set to be
integrated into Israel's multi-layered
and seemingly successful air defense
system